---
title: 2D-3D FLOSS
category: [three, zines]
image: 2d3d.png
thumb: 2d3d.png
published: true
layout: 3-project-page
permalink: 2d-3d-floss
slides: 
- 2d3d.png
- 2d3d-spread.png
description: A guide to free and/or open source software for 2D and 3D digital art.
tags: [zines, original]
---
An overview of free (libre) and/or open source software, for 2D and 3D art. 

In this issue there are lists of resources for digital painters, along with a little bit of my own review and commentary. 

***Below is part of the intro for the zine, which I'm including here as a summary of FLOSS if it's new to you.***

#### What is FLOSS?

Usually when we buy software we're buying the right to use it, and to only use it in a very specific way decided by the software company. This is why software pirating is not allowed: the company has said that users don't have the rights to freely share the software. You know those terms of use windows everybody clicks past when you install something on your computer? Yeah. That's where all of this is spelled out.

<!-- This is how it works for a lot of other creative fields. When you hire an illustrator and they specify that you can only use the graphic to make t-shirts, you really can't go making mugs and stationery with it. It's true even though it seems like you own the image. After all, the illustrator sold it to you and even gave you the hi-res file. 

*hits giant wrong answer buzzer*

This is just one very small slice of copyright law, but it's what dictates the difference between proprietary and free.

(Note that it is possible to actually sell all of the rights of a graphic to a client, but if you're doing this they need to be paying you very, very well for it.)
-->

And then there's FLOSS. It stands for Free (Libre) and Open Source Software. Libre indicates the fact that "Free" in FLOSS means that everybody is free to use, copy, share, and modify the software.

#### Why?!
You might be thinking, *Why would you do so much work for free?* Computer programs in particular lend themselves well to freedom because there are many, many benefits to **not** make your project closed source.

Students can learn from the code. Anyone can work to improve the program, not just employees of one company. This can result in high quality software, and/or software that addresses the user's needs with features or with fixing bugs. In a way, the idea of FLOSS even promotes positive values like generosity, teamwork, and community.

For more about the whats and whys of FLOSS:

[https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source](https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source)
[https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)

#### This zine and issue

In this zine I also include free (zero-cost) but non-open source resources. For all software (open source or not), not having to pay for it definitely attracts lots of users. But zero cost also means that more people get to use the software, that your financial situation doesn't have to be the thing that gets in the way.

This zine is the first that I can't seem to stop editing, because I think it's an important issue for digital artists and well, pretty much everybody. A (not-so-)fun fact: I wrote my grad school thesis on lowering financial barriers to philanthropy so access and equity are a pretty big part of my life. Plus personally I rely heavily on this type of software ([Blender](https://www.blender.org/about/)!!), and I hope that you can use this zine to find interesting tools and new ways to learn and experiment.

